With a commanding defensive display and his first goal in a cup final, the captain John Terry ensured that Chelsea would not endure another season without a trophy.

Terry lifted the League Cup after a 2-0 victory over Tottenham on Sunday at Wembley Stadium in London, almost two years after Chelsea collected its last prize, in the Europa League. The win also gave José Mourinho the first trophy of his second stint as Chelsea’s manager.

Terry, 34, and goalkeeper Petr Cech, 32, were the only players on the field who also started in the League Cup final a decade ago, when Mourinho won his first title in England.

“It’s difficult for me to live without titles,” Mourinho said. “I need to feed myself with titles.”

In the first final of the English season, Terry helped Mourinho satisfy his hunger. Terry, a center back, contained Tottenham throughout the first half and made a scoring breakthrough in the 45th minute when his strike took a slight deflection off defender Eric Dier.

Chelsea tightened its grip on the game when Tottenham defender Kyle Walker deflected striker Diego Costa’s shot into the net in the 56th minute.

The triumph ended the longest trophy drought in Mourinho’s managerial career. His last title, in the top Spanish league, had come with Real Madrid in 2012. He rejoined Chelsea in 2013.

Mourinho, who won the League Cup twice during his Chelsea tenure from 2004 to 2007, has his team in contention this season in the Champions League and the Premier League.

“This is the first one, and we have to build on it,” Terry said.

Tottenham fell to its second cup disappointment in three days, having been eliminated from the Europa League by Fiorentina on Thursday. Mauricio Pochettino’s first season in charge of Tottenham will be a trophyless one, but his young team is still developing.

“We played much better in the first half, and we respected our style and philosophy,” Pochettino said. “We were better than Chelsea and unlucky to concede the goal we did. It was hard for us.”
