Certainly José Mourinho looked unusually animated in the moment of victory – all smiles, hugs and energetic air-punch combinations – as Chelsea produced a performance of gristle, discipline and craft to beat Tottenham 2-0 and lift the Capital One Cup. This was also a first trophy of any kind for Mourinho in 914 days as a manager at Real Madrid and Chelsea.

Not that anybody (apart, perhaps, from José himself, and even then only quietly, late at night) is counting. More to the point there was confirmation at Wembley that this re-geared Chelsea team is indeed in transition. Albeit not towards the free-flowing attacking force of the autumn, a team of Hazards and Oscars, but towards something more truly carved in its manager’s image: the dry ice clearing, feather boa dropped to the floor, the mask askew to reveal the familiar unsmiling face beneath. Welcome back, cussed, trophy-winning José. For a while there we thought we’d lost you, old boy.

This was a wonderful day for Mourinho at a boisterous, rain-whipped Wembley stadium as his Chelsea Mk2 team won its first trophy of the new era with a performance that looked, most of the time, quite a lot like the old era. Not only did Chelsea’s manager enjoy a personal tactical triumph, sending out a team of all the defenders while displaying a hilariously unflinching pragmatist’s disdain for the occasion. He also saw his team’s position clarified in the pursuit of more substantial honours. It might be stretching it, as Mourinho himself suggested, to call this the day Chelsea won two trophies, given Manchester City’s defeat by Liverpool. But certainly the season looks to have taken a decisive turn, not least in the nature of this evolving team.

For all their continued progress on three fronts, Chelsea have looked leggy in recent weeks, a team gulping in oxygen. Before this game the Premier League leaders had won two of their last eight matches. It isn’t hard to see what the problem has been. With Cesc Fàbregas the flower at its heart, there has been a lack of bite and power in Chelsea’s central midfield even with Nemanja Matic in the team, which in turn exposes the centre-backs and clips the wings of that expansive attacking midfield.