Roman Abramovich hasn't always had a lot of luck with big-money strikers at Chelsea. Signed for the first time 11 years ago, Didier Drogba was clearly a palpable hit, while Fernando Torres offered mostly misses for 50 million pounds. Andrei Shevchenko was another crushing disappointment who never seemed more than a fraction of the player he had once been. Mateja Kezman, Adrian Mutu, Hernan Crespo, for one reason or another, none of them enjoyed the success his price tag implied.

But with Diego Costa, that losing streak of strikers has been emphatically ended.

Fittingly, it was Drogba who first congratulated Costa as he replaced him deep into injury time, nodding with huge approval and patting his colleague heartily on the back. The Ivorian knows that the torch has been passed, but it's hard to imagine a more worthy successor. There are many differences in the style of the two men, but they share the same ferocity. No defender has ever seen their names on the team sheet without grimacing in recognition of what would await them.

There were many heroes in Chelsea's team at Wembley. Kurt Zouma, new to Chelsea and England, was brave to take on the defensive midfielder role for the first time, especially in a cup final; while he seemed unsure in the first half, he grew in stature after the break. John Terry offered another indomitable performance at the back. But it was Costa's 56th-minute strike that ended Tottenham Hotspur's Wembley resistance in one stroke.

From that moment on, it was a perfect game for Jose Mourinho: a two-goal cushion, a heartbroken opponent and absolutely no reason in the world to rush. Spurs were trapped, and they knew it.

But Costa brings so much more than goals. He brings trouble -- the sort of trouble Chelsea have been crying out for.

Costa is a menace. He's nasty, he's ruthless, and he doesn't care what you think of him. If he wasn't a footballer, he would be the man who played music through the speakers of his phone on the quiet carriage of a train. He'd be the sort of monster who would cut his toenails at his desk. He'd have no compunction about cutting his toenails at your desk either, and you'd probably let him because you'd be scared of him. In short, he's the standout reason why Chelsea won the league cup and why they will almost certainly win the league. He's perfect for them.